Task1


1. What is git and gitHub?
Git- Git is a type of version control system that makes it easier to track changes to files or in the source code. It is designed for coordinating work among programmers, but it can be used to track changes in any set of files. It is a program installed in a system. 
Its current maintainer since 2005 is Junio Hamano. As with most other distributed version-control systems, and unlike most client–server systems, every Git directory on every computer is a full-fledged repository with complete history and full version-tracking abilities, independent of network access or a central server.

GitHub- It provides hosting for software development version control using Git. It allows us to create remote repository on website and provides a platform to bring teams together.
GitHub accounts are commonly used to host open source projects.

2. Why GitHub is so popular and used in most of the projects?
i. It supports all programing languages.
ii. Easily accessible 
iii. Provides secure cloud storage 
iv Teams can work together easily

3. What are the other platforms similar to GitHub?
i. SourceForge
ii. Launchpad
iii. GitBucket
iv Gitlab


Task2


a. How git workflow works?
  Git workflow has 4 fundamental stages: 
  i.   Workspace: Working Directory 
  ii.  Index (Stage): It is used as a staging area between working directory and your repository
  iii. Local Repository is the one on which we will make local changes, generally Local Repository is on our computer.
  iv.  Remote Repository is the one of the server.

b. What're the different stages of a git project as commit, add?
   Git project have 3 different stages
   i.   Modified: Once, the code is written in repository, anyone wants to make some modification can make those changes in their own remote repository.This is called Modification, i.e. making some additions to the original project.
   ii.  Staged: So, after making changes to the project without hampering the original version, but how do we apply those changes to our remote repository? So, we use the commands in the Git command line — git add. So, this command tracks the new changes and pushes it to the staging area where all the new files are finally ready to be joined to the remote repository.
   iii. Commit: This is the final stage, as this stage finally applies the new changes to the remote repository. commit is a set of new files that are being added to a project as part of the modification.

c. Is it possible to do a git commit before git add. If you have made any changes? Explain why?
   No, it is not possible to do git commit before git add. As per git workflow the file must be added to the index or staging area and then it must committed.Because when commit applies this simply means that you have successfully applied a certain modification to the code.

d. Why is git diff used?
   diff command is used in git to track the difference between the changes made on a file.

e. Can we leave the commit message as blank?
   Yes we can leave the commit message as blank and iCan we leave the commit message as blank?t can be done by using the command: git commit -a --allow-empty-message -m ""

My name is Arkaprava Ghosh
a. What is meant by the term fork and clone?
--> Fork is used when we want to make changes to someone's file in repository. It is very much useful in managing bugs as well as when we like to work on someone else's project.

Clone is used after we successfully forked someone's repository and now we are ready to work on the forked project. It is generally used to make the copy of the main file and get that file to the local sever so that we can work on it.

b. What are branches in Github?
--> Branches is a very vital concept in Github's world. When we are working on a project we generally work on master branch (default). But when we need to do some experiments or more simply when we want to make changes to our project which we are not sure to add them to the existing master branches, then comes the branching. One very great advantage of branching is that later on if we do some changes and if we want to add that file to master branch, we are always welcome for that. 

c. What is PR?
--> PR refers to pull request. When we successfully forked someone's repository and cloned it to the local machine and made the desired changes, then if now we wanted to do that changes in the actual repository we need a pull request. In simple words pull request may be considered as we are requesting the actual developer of the code to go through our edited code and pull the code if he finds it necessary.


d. Can we delete the master branch if not Why?
-->  Yes we can delete it. But we have to change the default branch to some else branch (other than master branch).

e. How can we delete a branch?
-->  To delete the branch locally, we need command ---
git branch -d <branch>
To delete the branch in github --

On GitHub, navigate to the main page of the repository.

•Above the list of files, click  NUMBER branches.

•Scroll to the branch that you want to delete, then click delete.